## Instructions 

### Part 1 Map / Reduce 
The Map/Reduce implementation you are given is missing some pieces. Before you can write your first Map/Reduce function pair, you will need to fix the sequential implementation. In particular, the code we give you is missing two crucial pieces: the function that divides up the output of a map task, and the function that gathers all the inputs for a reduce task. These tasks are carried out by the doMap() function in common_map.go, and the doReduce() function in common_reduce.go respectively. The comments in those files should point you in the right direction.

To help you determine if you have correctly implemented doMap() and doReduce(), we have provided you with a Go test suite that checks the correctness of your implementation. These tests are implemented in the file test_test.go. To run the tests for the sequential implementation that you have now fixed, run: 

```
$ cd mapreduce
$ go test -run Sequential
```
If the output did not show ok next to the tests, your implementation has a bug in it. To give more verbose output, set debugEnabled = true in common.go, and add -v to the test command above. 

### Part 2 Single Worker word count 
Now you will implement word count — a simple Map/Reduce example. Look in main/wc.go; you'll find empty mapF() and reduceF() functions. Your job is to insert code so that wc.go reports the number of occurrences of each word in its input. A word is any contiguous sequence of letters, as determined by unicode.IsLetter. 

Review Section 2 of the MapReduce paper. Your mapF() and reduceF() functions will differ a bit from those in the paper's Section 2.1. Your mapF() will be passed the name of a file, as well as that file's contents; it should split the contents into words, and return a Go slice of mapreduce.KeyValue. While you can choose what to put in the keys and values for the mapF output, for word count it only makes sense to use words as the keys. Your reduceF() will be called once for each key, with a slice of all the values generated by mapF() for that key. It must return a string containing the total number of occurences of the key. 

You can test your solution using: 
```
$ cd main 
$ time go run wc.go master sequential pg-*.txt 
```
The output will be in the file "mrtmp.wcseq". Your implementation is correct if the following command produces the output shown here: 
```
$ sort -n -k2 mrtmp.wcseq | tail -10
that: 7871
it: 7987
in: 8415
was: 8578
a: 13382
of: 13536
I: 14296
to: 16079
and: 23612
the: 29748
```

### Part 3 Distributing Map Reduce Tasks 
Your current implementation runs the map and reduce tasks one at a time. One of Map/Reduce's biggest selling points is that it can automatically parallelize ordinary sequential code without any extra work by the developer. In this part of the lab, you will complete a version of MapReduce that splits the work over a set of worker threads that run in parallel on multiple cores. While not distributed across multiple machines as in real Map/Reduce deployments, your implementation will use RPC to simulate distributed computation.

The code in mapreduce/master.go does most of the work of managing a MapReduce job. We also supply you with the complete code for a worker thread, in mapreduce/worker.go, as well as some code to deal with RPC in mapreduce/common_rpc.go.

Your job is to implement schedule() in mapreduce/schedule.go. The master calls schedule() twice during a MapReduce job, once for the Map phase, and once for the Reduce phase. schedule()'s job is to hand out tasks to the available workers. There will usually be more tasks than worker threads, so schedule() must give each worker a sequence of tasks, one at a time. schedule() should wait until all tasks have completed, and then return.

schedule() learns about the set of workers by reading its registerChan argument. That channel yields a string for each worker, containing the worker's RPC address. Some workers may exist before schedule() is called, and some may start while schedule() is running; all will appear on registerChan. schedule() should use all the workers, including ones that appear after it starts.

schedule() tells a worker to execute a task by sending a Worker.DoTask RPC to the worker. This RPC's arguments are defined by DoTaskArgs in mapreduce/common_rpc.go. The File element is only used by Map tasks, and is the name of the file to read; schedule() can find these file names in mapFiles.

Use the call() function in mapreduce/common_rpc.go to send an RPC to a worker. The first argument is the the worker's address, as read from registerChan. The second argument should be "Worker.DoTask". The third argument should be the DoTaskArgs structure, and the last argument should be nil.

Your solution to Part III should only involve modifications to schedule.go. If you modify other files as part of debugging, please restore their original contents and then test before submitting.

Use `go test -run TestParallel` to test your solution. This will execute two tests, TestParallelBasic and TestParallelCheck; the latter verifies that your scheduler causes workers to execute tasks in parallel. 

### part 4 Handling Worker Failures
In this part you will make the master handle failed workers. MapReduce makes this relatively easy because workers don't have persistent state. If a worker fails while handling an RPC from the master, the master's call() will eventually return false due to a timeout. In that situation, the master should re-assign the task given to the failed worker to another worker.

An RPC failure doesn't necessarily mean that the worker didn't execute the task; the worker may have executed it but the reply was lost, or the worker may still be executing but the master's RPC timed out. Thus, it may happen that two workers receive the same task, compute it, and generate output. Two invocations of a map or reduce function are required to generate the same output for a given input (i.e. the map and reduce functions are "functional"), so there won't be inconsistencies if subsequent processing sometimes reads one output and sometimes the other. In addition, the MapReduce framework ensures that map and reduce function output appears atomically: the output file will either not exist, or will contain the entire output of a single execution of the map or reduce function (the lab code doesn't actually implement this, but instead only fails workers at the end of a task, so there aren't concurrent executions of a task). 
```
$ go test -run Failure
```